l

mnnonnfflon

H. Tmr Mnrnronc Lrosnsns or Vnacm

219 Licenses Deflned—The exigencies of metrical composition
are such that Latin poets, like English writers, frequently
decline to be bound down by a rigid adherence to the general
laws‘ of versification or pronunciation. These departures

· from normal usage are commonly spoken of as licenses3 some
are in fact archaisms. Vergil allows himself no licenses'
beyond those to be found in other Latin poete.1 ,

240 1 and U as consonante. -Vowel o‘ and vowel u* are some-

times treated as consonante (1.1. as equivalent to English y
consonant or w) , and then help to make the preceding sylla
ble heavy Of:

ii 16 aedificant sectaque intexunt abiete costas
v. 432 genno labant, vastos quatit aeger anhelitus artus.

So too aries ii. 492 ,paries ii. 442, and omnia vi. 33 count
as dissyllabic words, with a heavy penult.

241 Diastole.-Gertain syllables that are light in prosc are
sometimes treated 11 heavy by Vergil. Sometimes he is per·
mitting himself an· archaism in retaining the original vowel
quantity. We may note:

(1) Lengthening of the enclitic oue, in the thesis (ξ 231),
111111. 91, iv. 141111. 186111. In such a case 11 iv. 146
Cretesoun Dryopesque fremont pictique Agathyrsi, we have tc
recognize 1 linense, since a final syllable whose vowel stands
before amute and 1 liquid in the next word does not usually
count as heavy.

242 (2) Retention of the original quantity3 this occurs in
nouns, adjectives, and verbs3 amor xi. 323, Numitor vi. 768,
pater v. 5213 pulvis i. 478, videti. 308, peteret i. 6513
omittebat v. 853. Vergil lengthens final syllables in -t in
verbforms only in the second, third, and fourth theses.

243 (3) Lengthening before the caesura; this occurs in noune

¹ Toachers will lind a much more detalled treatment with discussion of diffloult
verses 111 ‘The Metrlcal Llceuses of Vergil: by Horold W. Johnston (Scott, Fores·

man ond company).

 

